Optimization Grand Challenge 2026 (OGC 2026)
The Grand Shipyard Puzzle: Pack the Block, Beat the Clock
OGC 2026 Organizing Committee
May 16, 2026 (Document Version 1.0)
Abstract
The Optimization Grand Challenge (OGC) 2026 addresses a spatial block scheduling problem
drawn from shipbuilding. In a shipyard, each structural block of a ship is built inside a fixed
workspace called a bay. Blocks are three-dimensional objects with irregular, layered shapes, so placing
them in a bay without overlap is itself a hard geometric problem. On top of this, every block
carries a release date, a processing time, and a due date, and bay space is shared—so a block may
have to wait, or stay longer than needed, because of other blocks around it. An algorithm must
therefore decide, for each block, which bay it goes to, where and how it sits, and when it enters and
leaves—all at once. This document gives a formal problem definition, a participation guide, and the
evaluation criteria.
Document updates. This document may be revised to correct errors or clarify ambiguities. The
latest version is always available on the competition website, and the version number on the title
page indicates which revision you are reading. Participants are responsible for checking the website
for updates; significant changes will also be announced there.
1 Problem Description
1.1 Terminology
• Bay: A physically partitioned workspace in a shipyard where operations are performed. Each
bay j ∈ M has a fixed size Wj × Hj , where M := {1, 2, . . . ,m} is the set of bays.
• Block: A production unit representing a large structural component of a ship. Each block
i ∈ N consists of Ki polygonal layers forming a 3D structure, where N := {1, 2, . . . , n} is the
set of blocks. A block can be rotated, and the number of possible orientation options is given
as Oi.
• Release date (Ri): The earliest time at which block i can start processing.
• Due date (Di): The desired completion time of block i.
• Processing time (Pi): The time required to process block i.
• Entry time (ENTRYi): The time at which block i is placed into a bay.
• Exit time (EXITi): The time at which block i leaves the bay.
• Tardiness (Ti): The delay beyond the due date, defined as
Ti = max(0,EXITi − Di).
• Workload (Li): The total workload required during the processing of block i.
• Preference (Sij): The preference score of block i to be assigned to bay j.
1.2 Problem Setting
In a shipyard, blocks undergo several production stages, some of which are carried out within bays.
Each bay is a fixed workspace where resources such as cranes, labor, and transportation paths are
shared. Blocks must be assigned to bays and processed while satisfying both temporal and spatial
constraints. Each bay can accommodate multiple blocks simultaneously, provided that they do
not overlap in space. Each block has its own release date, processing time, and due date. Therefore,
the assignment and scheduling decisions must consider both spatial and temporal feasibility
simultaneously.
1
Figure 1: Real shipyard layout with multiple bays and block operations
Bay 1
Bay 2
Bay
Figure 2: Bays
1.3 Bays
Each bay is an independent workspace, and there exists physical or operational separation between
bays. A typical shipyard has multiple bays as shown in Figure 1. We assume that the shipyard
consists of m bays, each bay j has a size Wj ×Hj . For any given block, the following decisions must
be made simultaneously:
1. which bay to assign,
2. the position and orientation within the bay,
3. when to put the block on the bay
4. when to pull the block from the bay
We assume that each bay has an independent crane, so any operations in the bay can be done
separately. There are two operations regarding this year’s competition: ENTRY and EXIT, which
represent putting a block into the bay and removing it from the bay, respectively. For a given day,
the crane operator of each bay would receive a list of operations to conduct on that day. We do not
limit the number of operations that can be conducted on a single day, so any number of operations
can be performed before the day’s work. For example, consider a block with a processing time of 3,
scheduled to be placed in a bay on day 5 (ENTRY operation on day 5). Then, the earliest day the
block is ready for the EXIT operation is day 8. In other words, the block can be processed from day
5 to day 7. Note that, in this case, the order of operations is also important because each operation
would make the bay look different. Nonetheless, we assume that all EXIT operations must be done
before any ENTRY operations. Among the same type of operations, the algorithm should determine
the order in which to conduct them.
2
Figure 3: A block with two layers
three-layer block two-layer block
Figure 4: Two blocks with different numbers of layers (front view)
1.4 Blocks
We are given a total of n blocks. Each block is assumed to consist of multiple polygonal layers
forming a three-dimensional structure. The polygon defining each layer is not necessarily convex.
For example, a block composed of two layers, where each layer has a rectangular shape, is illustrated
in Figure 3. The top view shows the planar shape as seen from above, the front view shows the shape
as seen from the front, and the right view shows the shape as seen from the right side.
Each block i is assumed to consist of Ki layers, and all layers are assumed to have the same
height. For example, the front views of a three-layer block and a two-layer block are shown in Figure
4. Note that there cannot be an “empty” layer. Moreover, any two adjacent layers are guaranteed
to be physically attached, so “floating” layers are impossible.
When a block is placed, the orientation of the block should also be determined. For this competition,
we provide problem instances with predetermined numbers of possible orientations for each
block, denoted by Oi for block i. For example, Figure 5 shows a block with eight possible orientation
options.
Each block i also has a workload Li and preference scores for bays Sij . The workload indicates
how much work should be done for the block, and a solution with less variance in total workloads
across the bays is preferred. The preference score Sij indicates how much block i is preferred for
assignment to bay j.
Orientation=0 Orientation=1 Orientation=2 Orientation=3 Orientation=4 Orientation=5 Orientation=6 Orientation=7
Figure 5: Possible orientation options of a block
3
1.5 Decisions to Make
For each block i, the following decisions must be made:
• Assignment to a bay j
• Placement position within the bay
• Orientation selection
• Entry time ENTRYi and exit time EXITi
1.6 Constraints
There are three main groups of constraints. The first constraint concerns the assignment of every
block to a bay, with ENTRY/EXIT operations assured. The second is the temporal constraint, which
ensures that work on the block is performed only after the block has been available for at least the
required processing time. The third group of constraints concerns the spatial feasibility of the blocks
within the bay. Because the crane operations can be performed before the day’s working time, a
block i with ENTRYi and EXITi occupies the assigned bay during [ENTRYi,EXITi).
1.6.1 Assignment Constraints
Assignment constraint For every block, it must be assigned to a single bay. There cannot be
any unassigned blocks.
Operation constraint For every block, it must have exactly one ENTRY operation and one
EXIT operation. A block cannot be moved or rotated once placed in the bay.
1.6.2 Temporal Constraints
Release date constraint A block cannot start before its release date:
ENTRYi ≥ Ri.
Processing time constraint A block’s work must be completed before exit:
EXITi − ENTRYi ≥ Pi.
Note that the block may “remain” in the bay after the required processing time has elapsed. This
can happen if other blocks prevent it from exiting. If the exit time EXITi exceeds the due date Di,
a positive tardiness occurs. Typically, a block has Di −Ri > Pi, which implies there is some “slack”
time to determine better ENTRY and EXIT times for the block, considering the other blocks in the
bay.
1.6.3 Spatial Constraints
Let Po,x,y
i,l denote the polygon of layer l of block i positioned at location (x, y) with orientation
o. Consider two blocks i1 and i2 located in the same bay on the same day. We say there is a
collision between two blocks i1 and i2 if int(Po1,x1,y1
i1,l ) ∩ int(Po2,x2,y2
i2,l ) ∕= ∅, where int(·) represents
the set of interior points of the (closed) polygon. In other words, two blocks are collision-free if
int(Po1,x1,y1
i1,l ) ∩ int(Po2,x2,y2
i2,l ) = ∅ for any layer l. Note that we allow two blocks to share polygon
edges to be collision-free. We define a function C(i1, l1, o1, x1, y1, i2, l2, o2, x2, y2) as
C(i1, l1, o1, x1, y1, i2, l2, o2, x2, y2) :=
󰀫
0, if int(Po1,x1,y1
i1,l1
) ∩ int(Po2,x2,y2
i2,l2
) = ∅,
1, otherwise.
For any date t and bay j ∈ M, we define the set
N(t, j) := {i ∈ N : ENTRYi ≤ t < EXITi and i is assigned to j}.
That is, the set N(t, j) is a subset of blocks that are assigned to the same bay j and stay in the bay
at the time t.
Bay containment constraint Each block must be fully contained within the assigned bay.
Figure 7(b) shows two blocks violating this constraint.
4
Block 2
Top Right
Front
Layer 1
Layer 0
Layer 0
Layer 1
Front
Block 1
Top Right
Layer 1
Layer 0
Layer 0
Layer 1
Figure 6: Two blocks with two layers orientation 0
(b) Bay containment
(a) Feasible arrangement violation (c) Layer collison-free
violation
(d) Crane operation
violation (Block 2)
Figure 7: Examples of spatial constraints
Layer collision-free constraint For any date t, bay j, and any two distinct blocks i1, i2 ∈
N(t, j), the decision variables (o1, x1, y1, o2, x2, y2) must satisfy C(i1, l, o1, x1, y1, i2, l, o2, x2, y2) = 0
for all l = 1, 2, . . . ,min{Ki1 ,Ki2}. Plainly speaking, two blocks in the same bay on the same date are
spatially feasible if their layers at the same level are collision-free. For example, Figure 7(a) shows
that the two blocks are spatially feasible even though they appear to overlap from the top view. On
the other hand, Figure 7(c) shows that two blocks are spatially infeasible.
Crane operation constraint To place or remove the blocks in the bay, the crane should be able
to move the blocks vertically without any interference. Assume that, for any date t and bay j, either
crane operation (ENTRY or EXIT) of block i1 is feasible only if C(i1, l1, o1, x1, y1, i2, l2, o2, x2, y2) = 0
for any l1 ≤ l2, where i2 ∈ N(t, j)\{i1}, l1 = 1, 2, . . . ,Ki1 , and l2 = 1, 2, . . . ,Ki2 . Plainly speaking,
to put or pull a block, the block’s layer must be spatially feasible with the layers of other blocks at
the same or higher levels. For example, Figure 7(d) shows that Block 2 violates the crane operation
constraint if it is put or pulled when Block 1 already exists. On the other hand, Block 1 can be
craned even if Block 2 exists.
1.7 Objective Function
The objective is to minimize a weighted combination of three criteria:
Total tardiness The sum of the total tardiness of blocks.
Z1 :=
󰁛n
i=1
Ti,
Workload imbalance Maximum normalized workload imbalance across bays.
Z2 :=
󰀹 󰀹 󰀹 󰀷
max
j1,j2∈M:j1∕=j2
󰀏 󰀏 󰀏 󰀏 󰀏 󰀏
uj1
󰁛
i∈N(j1)
Li − uj2
󰁛
i∈N(j2)
Li
󰀏 󰀏 󰀏 󰀏 󰀏 󰀏
󰀺 󰀺 󰀺 󰀸
,
5
where N(j) ⊆ N is the set of blocks assigned to bay j and uj is the weight assigned to the bay where
each block is placed. This value is defined as the average area of all bays divided by the area of the
specific bay;
uj =
󰁓
k∈M Wk×Hk
m
Wj × Hj
.
A larger bay has a smaller weight value, this reflects that placing blocks in a larger bay reduces
congestion, even if the blocks have the same workload.
Total preference score Total sum of preference scores for the assigned bays.
Z3 :=
󰁛
j∈M
󰁛
i∈N(j)
(Smax
i − Sij),
where Smax
i := maxj∈M{Sij}. Note that Z3 = 0 if all blocks are assigned to the bay with the most
preferred score.
So, we want to minimize the function
w1Z1 + w2Z2 + w3Z3,
where w1, w2, and w3 are the given nonnegative weight parameters.
2 Problem Instance Definition
The participants are provided with “training” problem instances generated by the OGC committee.
These instances are designed to closely mimic real-world shipbuilding problems and include various
challenging aspects. For example, some instances have many blocks, while others may have tighter
block-release/due-date schedules. We expect the participants to develop their algorithms by considering
these various challenges so that the resulting algorithms perform well across a wide range of
situations.
A single problem instance is given in json format as follows:
1 {
2 " name ": " training_problem_01 ",
3 " bays ": [
4 {
5 " width ": 125,
6 " height ": 15
7 },
8 {
9 " width ": 71,
10 " height ": 18
11 },
12 {
13 " width ": 140,
14 " height ": 25
15 }
16 ],
17 " blocks ": [
18 {
19 " release_time ": 37,
20 " due_date ": 44,
21 " processing_time ": 7,
22 " workload ": 20,
23 " bay_preferences ": [
24 19,
25 26,
26 55
27 ],
28 " shape ": [
29 {
30 " orientation ": 0,
31 " layers ": [
32 [
33 [ 0.0, 0.0 ], [ 0.8093, 5.4723 ], [ 1.2955, 11.0993 ], ...
34 ],
35 [
36 [ -3.0413, 0.3435 ], [ 0.5671, -0.064 ], [ 4.8185, 3.4301 ], ...
37 ]
38 ]
6
39 },
40 {
41 " orientation ": 1,
42 " layers ": [
43 [
44 [ 0.0, 0.0 ], [ -3.2972, 4.4418 ], [ -6.9323, 8.7645 ], ...
45 ],
46 [
47 [ -2.3934, -1.9076 ], [ 0.4463, 0.3558 ], [ 0.9818, 5.8327 ], ...
48 ]
49 ]
50 },
51 ...
52 ]
53 },
54 {
55 " release_time ": 42,
56 " due_date ": 49,
57 " processing_time ": 5,
58 " workload ": 11,
59 " bay_preferences ": [
60 0,
61 72,
62 28
63 ],
64 " shape ": ...
65
66 ...
67 },
68 ...
69 ],
70 " weights ": {
71 "w1 ": 26667,
72 "w2 ": 10,
73 "w3 ": 300
74 }
Listing 1: Example problem instance
Listing 1 shows an example of a problem instance in the json file. The problem instance file
consists of four parts: (1) problem name ("name"), (2) a list of bays ("bays"), (3) a list of blocks
("blocks"), and (4) the objective function weights ("weights").
We assume that the bays are indexed from 0 to m−1, where m is the number of bays. Each bay
0 ≤ j ≤ m − 1 may have a different size as shown in the example. For example, the bay 0 has the
size of 125 × 15.
Similarly, the blocks are indexed from 0 to n−1. For example, block 0’s release date is 37, its due
date is 44, and its bay preferences are 19, 26, and 55, i.e., S00 = 19, S01 = 26, and S02 = 55. Note
that the preference scores for a single block always sum to 100 across all bays. We also note that
all time-related values and preference scores are always integers. The "shape" of a block describes
the layer polygons for each orientation. Each orientation is a dictionary with an orientation ID
("orientation") and a list of layer polygons ("layers"). The orientation ID is always an integer.
The list of layer polygons contains the vertex pairs for each layer, ordered from the lowest to the
highest. For example, block 0’s orientation ID 0 consists of two layers: layer 0 is defined as [[ 0.0,
0.0 ], [ 0.8093, 5.4723 ], [ 1.2955, 11.0993 ], ...] and layer 1 is defined as [[ -3.0413,
0.3435 ], [ 0.5671, -0.064 ], [ 4.8185, 3.4301 ], ...]. Note that the first vertex of the
first layer (layer 0) is always [0.0, 0.0]. We call this vertex a reference point. All other vertices of
the same orientation shape are relative to the reference point. When the algorithm determines the
location of a block as (x, y), the locations of the vertices of the block shape inside the assigned bay
are translated from the bay’s origin by (x, y). Figure 8 illustrates the geometry of the bay and blocks.
The block’s location is specified by translating the reference point to (x, y) while keeping all other
relative positions of the layer’s vertices to the reference point unchanged. Therefore, the relative
location of a block’s reference point is not always at the bottom left when the block’s orientation is
different, as shown in Figure 8.
We note that a layer’s vertex, other than the reference point, can have a fractional location, with
up to four significant digits. Because layer shapes can be quite irregular, numerical instability may
arise when checking for spatial collisions between blocks. We strongly recommend using the functions
in the provided utils.py at least at the final stage of your algorithm, as the evaluation server will
also use them to check the feasibility of the resulting solutions.
All indices, including bays and blocks, are 0-based in the problem instance and the algorithm
7
orientation=0
orientation=1
orientation=2
Figure 8: Geometry of bay and blocks
solution. Please note that, in contrast, the formal problem definition in Section 1 uses 1-based
indices. We made this distinction to keep the algorithm code and utility functions more Pythonic.
3 Algorithm Submission and Evaluation
The teams should submit their algorithm code to the evaluation server by emailing it to submission@
optichallenge.com. Algorithms are evaluated on the “hidden” problem instances on the dedicated
server, and the results are ranked against other teams’ results to build leaderboards, which
will be available on the competition webpage.
3.1 Algorithm Submission
To submit algorithm code to the evaluation server, the following requirements must be met:
• The email should be sent to submission@optichallenge.com.
• The email should be sent from the email address used for registration.
• The email should include a single zip file as an attachment.
• The zip file should include myalgorithm.py.
• If utils.py file is included in the zip file, it cannot be modified. (It will be overwritten before
running the algorithm.)
• The file myalgorithm.py should be at the root of the decompressed files (not inside a subfolder).
• The zip file size cannot exceed 15MB.
• A new submission cannot be accepted if the previous accepted submission time is not before
the predefined cooldown period (12 hours).
Any submission that does not satisfy any of the above rules will be rejected. The server will perform
additional sanity checks (e.g., checking for a broken zip file) before accepting the submission to
ensure the submitted algorithm code is valid. Once a submission is accepted, the algorithm code
will be executed to solve the hidden instances. All evaluation of results is based on the latest
accepted submission. However, we note that acceptance of the submission does not guarantee that
the algorithm will produce correct results. It may still crash or even fail to execute due to a missing
dependency. Regardless of their success or failure, the latest accepted submission will be used for the
leaderboard, so teams should ensure all submission requirements are met. The competition system
will reply to submission emails with the acceptance/rejection status, with a brief description of the
reason for rejection if rejected. Note that the teams can resubmit immediately after correcting the
cause of the rejection. The cooldown timer starts only after the submission is accepted.
We note that some email service providers block certain potentially malicious file extensions
in attachments, such as *.dll, *.vb, and *.exe 1. It is the team’s responsibility to ensure the
attachment files can be safely accessed from the evaluation system.
The exact start and end of the submission period will be announced on the competition webpage.
There is no limit on the number of submissions allowed during the competition. Nonetheless, the
competition committee reserves the right to suspend or even ban teams from submissions if it is
determined that the submission system is abused by those teams. We expect the teams to behave
fairly and respectfully in using the submission system.
1For example, refer to this for Gmail.
8
3.2 Algorithm Evaluation Server
Teams are expected to develop their algorithms using training problems. The submitted algorithm
code is executed on hidden problems for evaluation. The evaluation server specification is:
• AMD Ryzen Threadripper PRO 9955WX
• Ubuntu 24.04 LTS
Algorithms are subject to a time limit, which can vary across problems. The time limits for hidden
evaluation problems are disclosed only after the competition ends. We expect the typical time
limits to range from a few minutes to half an hour, measured in wall-clock time. Because the
participating teams’ development environment specs differ from the server specs, algorithms should
carefully monitor their internal elapsed time and avoid exceeding limits. Any execution failing to
produce the solution within the time limit is treated the same as an algorithm crash or malfunction.
For the sake of fair competition, submitted algorithms are also subject to the following constraints:
• No external internet access during execution
• No access to parent directories above the execution folder
• At most 4 CPU cores (400% CPU usage)
• At most 16GB of memory
Violating these constraints may lead to disqualification. Internet blocking and CPU core limits are
enforced using firejail and cpulimit at evaluation time. Your algorithm must not conflict with
these tools.
Submitted algorithms are run on hidden problems, and results are aggregated hourly. At each
aggregation point, a leaderboard is generated from algorithms that produced results on all problems
and is then published on the website. We note that the “submission time” may differ from the
“algorithm execution complete time” because the evaluation server maintains a queue of submissions,
which are processed on a first-come, first-served basis. The teams will receive reply emails from the
submission system once the algorithm has finished executing.
3.3 Leaderboard
The leaderboard ranking is score-based. For each hidden test instance, the following score is assigned
based on the algorithm’s produced solution.
• −1, if the solution is infeasible, the algorithm is time-limited, or crashes
• R − nb, if the solution is feasible, where R is the number of evaluated teams and nb is the
number of teams that found a strictly better objective for this problem.
Leaderboard rankings are determined by total points across all problems at the time the leaderboard
is built. The feasibility of solutions will be checked using the check feasibility() function in the
provided utils.py module. Once a solution is proven feasible, the system will also calculate its
objective value.
Please be aware that the final winners are determined by considering written reports and presentations
in addition to the leaderboard ranking. Therefore, the final judgment is based on three
main criteria: leaderboard ranking, technical report, and presentation. The organizing committee
reserves the right to adjust the weights for the final criteria. Nonetheless, we strive to balance raw
algorithmic performance with novel scientific contributions. Accordingly, novel ideas or theoretical
innovations would be appreciated, even if they do not fully translate into algorithmic performance.
4 Algorithm Development and Baseline
This section explains how to write algorithm code for the competition using the provided baseline
algorithm as an example.
4.1 Development Environment
Before submission, each team should implement and test the algorithm on their own machines. This
section explains how to build a Python environment similar to the evaluation server.
The submitted algorithm will be run in a conda environment created with miniforge. The environment
file used to create the server conda environment can be downloaded from the competition
webpage.
Some notable Python packages and their versions available in the conda environment are:
9
1 - python 3.12
2 - jupyterlab 4.4.1
3 - notebook 7.4.1
4 - ipympl 0.9.7
5 - pandas 2.2.3
6 - networkx 3.4.2
7 - scipy 1.15.2
8 - scikit - learn 1.6.1
9 - numba 0.61.0
10 - cython 3.0.10
11 - openjdk 17
12 - dotnet - runtime 8
13 - pyqt6 6.11.0
14 - ortools 9.15.6755
15 - gurobipy 13.0.2
16 - xpress 9.8.1
17 - gymnasium 1.2.3
18 - torch 2.11.0
19 - torchvision 0.26.0
20 - tensorflow 2.21.0
21 - keras 3.14.0
22 - shapely 2.1.2
Listing 2: OGC2026 conda environment file
Teams can use other Python packages or libraries by zipping all required files into a single
submission archive. Depending on the hardware/OS, environment creation may fail (especially with
pytorch, tensorflow, etc.). If you do not use those problematic packages, remove them from the
provided yml file and retry. This conda environment is provided to increase compatibility with
the evaluation server. It is not mandatory, and exact behavior may still differ by OS. General
conda/Python issues should be handled by teams.
You can request the installation of additional packages required for your algorithm. The organizing
committee will decide whether to install the requested packages. The competition will establish
a Discord server for participant questions and requests. Please refer to the competition webpage for
instructions on joining the Discord server.
Note that although machine-learning-related packages are readily available, there is no dedicated
GPU on the evaluation server. We expect ML-related algorithms to be permitted as long as they
run on a CPU.
With generous support from Gurobi and FICO, submissions can use the following commercial
MIP solvers:
• Gurobi 13.0.2
• Xpress 9.8.1
4.2 Baseline Algorithm
We provide a simple greedy algorithm, available on the competition webpage, to help teams in
developing their own algorithms. The myalgorithm.py is the entry point of your algorithm. The
evaluation server will seek this file and function algorithm(prob info, timelimit=60) as shown in
Listing 3.
1 def algorithm ( prob_info , timelimit =60) :
2 """
3 This is a template for the custom algorithm .
4 The function signature must not be changed or removed , but you can define
extra functions or modules that are used in this function .
5 The ‘prob_info ‘ is a dictionary containing the problem information , and ‘
timelimit ‘ is the algorithm ’s time limit in seconds .
6 The function should return a solution in the format specified in the
problem statement .
7 Please refer to baseline_greedy .py for an example implementation of a
simple greedy algorithm . You can use it as a starting point or reference
for your own algorithm .
8 """
9 # You can import other modules or define extra functions here .
10 import baseline_greedy
11
12 return baseline_greedy . greedyalgorithm ( prob_info , timelimit )
Listing 3: Example myalgorithm.py
10
The function algorithm(prob info, timelimit=60) should return a Python dictionary containing
solution information for the given problem prob info.
The solution dictionary should look like:
1 {
2 " operations ": {
3 "0": [
4 {
5 " type ": " ENTRY ",
6 " block_id ": 48,
7 " bay_id ": 1,
8 "x": 0,
9 "y": 0,
10 " orient_idx ": 0
11 },
12 {
13 " type ": " ENTRY ",
14 " block_id ": 53,
15 " bay_id ": 0,
16 "x": 0,
17 "y": 0,
18 " orient_idx ": 0
19 }
20 ],
21 "1": [
22 {
23 " type ": " ENTRY ",
24 " block_id ": 19,
25 " bay_id ": 2,
26 "x": 37,
27 "y": 0,
28 " orient_idx ": 2
29 },
30 {
31 " type ": " ENTRY ",
32 " block_id ": 66,
33 " bay_id ": 2,
34 "x": 22,
35 "y": 0,
36 " orient_idx ": 0
37 },
38 ...
39 ],
40 ...
41 "28": [
42 {
43 " type ": " EXIT ",
44 " block_id ": 25,
45 " bay_id ": 2
46 },
47 {
48 " type ": " EXIT ",
49 " block_id ": 31,
50 " bay_id ": 1
51 },
52 {
53 " type ": " ENTRY ",
54 " block_id ": 15,
55 " bay_id ": 0,
56 "x": 106,
57 "y": 0,
58 " orient_idx ": 0
59 },
60 {
61 " type ": " ENTRY ",
62 " block_id ": 35,
63 " bay_id ": 2,
64 "x": 13,
65 "y": 0,
66 " orient_idx ": 0
67 },
68 {
69 " type ": " ENTRY ",
11
70 " block_id ": 44,
71 " bay_id ": 0,
72 "x": 19,
73 "y": 0,
74 " orient_idx ": 0
75 }
76 ],
77 ...
78 }
79 }
Listing 4: Example solution dictionary
The solution dictionary should have a single key "operations", whose value is another dictionary
for daily operations. The daily operations dictionary has keys for dates (or time periods). For
example, "0", "1", and "28" are date indices. It is not necessary to include all date indices; only
dates with operations should be specified. For each date index, a list of operations is specified.
There are two types of operations: "EXIT" and "ENTRY". There is no limit on the number of daily
operations. However, any "EXIT" operations should be performed before the "ENTRY" operations, as
shown in the example for "28"’s operations.
As shown in the example, all numbers should be integers. In particular, the block’s location ("x"
and "y") cannot be fractional. The evaluation system will always round the location values before
conducting a feasibility check, which can be done by calling utils.check feasibility(prob info,
solution).
The baseline implements a greedy algorithm based on the EDD (earliest due date) rule. The next
block to be assigned, with the earliest due date, is placed at one of the “candidate points”, which
are the bottom-right vertices of the AABB (axis-aligned bounding box). The resulting solution may
be infeasible because the crane constraint is ignored during the first phase. The baseline algorithm
simply moves the infeasible blocks to a later date, when the bays are cleared. Teams can read the
baseline code and use it as a starting point.
4.3 Algorithm Tester and Solution Visualization
This section introduces a simple way to test your algorithm and visualize the solutions. First,
download and unzip alg tester.zip from the competition website to an appropriate folder. Then,
activate the ogc2026 conda environment and run python alg tester app.py. You will see a window
similar to Figure 9. Select the problem instance to solve, then specify the directory that contains
your algorithm files, including myalgorithm.py. You can see the problem, bay, and block details in
the “Problem” tab. The “Solution” tab will show your selected algorithm’s solution to the problem.
In particular, the arrangement of blocks in the bays is visualized with cross-sectional views. Note
that this application is provided as a reference that may be helpful. It would be appreciated if the
teams could report any bugs encountered when using this application and the baseline algorithm.
5 Competition Format and Policy
The Optimization Grand Challenge 2026 is conducted in two stages: a preliminary stage and a
final stage. Participants are free to employ any methodology—including mathematical optimization,
machine learning, heuristics, or hybrid approaches—to solve the problem.
Leaderboard policy. Throughout each stage, the leaderboard displays standings by tier (e.g.,
top 10, top 20, top 30) rather than by exact rank. Precise final rankings for each stage are revealed
only after all evaluations for that stage have been completed.
5.1 Preliminary Stage
1. Automated evaluation. Participants submit their algorithm code to the competition server,
which automatically executes the code and evaluates performance. The leaderboard is updated
to reflect the latest tier standings.
2. Advancement to the final stage. Based on the automated evaluation results and code
verification conducted by the organizing committee, the top 30 to 40 teams (subject to change)
are selected to advance to the final stage. Final preliminary rankings are announced upon the
conclusion of this stage.
12


Figure 9: Algorithm Tester
13
5.2 Final Stage
1. Automated evaluation. As in the preliminary stage, participants submit their algorithm
code to the competition server for automated execution and tier-based scoring.
2. Technical report submission. All finalist teams are required to submit a technical report
describing their algorithm in a designated format. The integrity and quality of the submitted
code, together with the technical report, are reviewed separately by the organizing committee.
3. Presentation. Finalist teams are required to present their approach and results before the
organizing committee, which is also taken into account in the final evaluation.
4. Final selection. Once all evaluations are complete, the organizing committee conducts a
comprehensive review of the automated scores, technical reports, code evaluations, and presentations
to determine the final prize-winning teams. The complete final rankings are announced
at this point.
5.3 Evaluation, Disclosure, and Integrity
The specific evaluation criteria and procedures are determined and administered at the discretion of
the organizing committee. Apart from the final rankings of prize-winning teams, individual evaluation
results will not be disclosed.
All algorithm code and technical reports submitted by finalist teams will be publicly disclosed;
accordingly, all submitted code must be eligible for release as open source. By participating, teams
consent to such disclosure.
Even after the final results are announced, awards may be revoked if any misconduct—including
but not limited to plagiarism, undisclosed use of restricted resources, or other violations of competition
rules—is discovered or reported and substantiated through review by the organizing committee.
6 Organizing Committee
The Optimization Grand Challenge 2026 is organized and operated by
• Kyungsik Lee (Seoul National University, Chair)
• Chungmok Lee (Hankuk University of Foreign Studies)
• Jonghoon Woo (Seoul National University)
• Chankmug Kang (Soongsil University)
• Seulgi Joung (Ajou University)
• Yunwoo Jung (LG CNS)
• Gibeak Ahn (LG CNS)
• Jerimi Lee (LG CNS)
14